CHAPTER XIX.
THE BURDEN OF EGYPT
Behold, the LORD writeth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt, and the idols
of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst
of it.
And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians, and they shall fight every one against his
brother, and every one against his neighbor, city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.
And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof, and I will destroy the council
thereof, and they shall seek to the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have
familiar spirits, and to the wizards.
And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel LORD, and a fierce king shall
rule over them, said the LORD, the LORD of hosts.
And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and dried up.
And they shall turn the rivers far away, and the brooks of defense shall be emptied and
dried up.
The reeds and flags shall wither.
The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and everything sewn by the
brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be no more.
The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast ankle into the brooks shall lament,
and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish.
Moreover, they that work in fine flax, and they that weave networks, shall be confounded,
and they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make sluices and ponds for fish.
Surely the princes of Zoan are fools.
The counsel of the wise counselors of Pharaoh is become brutish.
How say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings.
Where are they?
Where are thy wise men?
And let them tell thee now, and let them know what the Lord of hosts hath purposed upon
Egypt.
The princes of Zoan are become fools.
The princes of Noph are deceived.
They have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay of the tribes thereof.
The Lord hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof, and they have caused Egypt
to err in every work thereof, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit.
Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or tail, branch or rush may
do.
In that day shall Egypt be like unto women, and it shall be afraid and feared because
of the shaking of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which he shaketh over it.
And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one that maketh mention thereof
shall be afraid in himself because of the counsel of the Lord of hosts, which he hath
determined against it.
In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the language of Canaan, and
swear to the Lord of hosts, one shall be called the city of destruction.
In that day shall there be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and
a pillar at the border thereof to the Lord.
And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt,
for they shall cry unto the Lord because of the oppressors, and he shall send them a Savior
and a great one, and he shall deliver them.
And the Lord shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that
day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation, yea, they shall vow a vow unto the Lord and
perform it.
And the Lord shall smite Egypt, he shall smite and heal it, and they shall return even to
the Lord, and he shall be entreated of them, and shall heal them.
In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Syria, and the Assyrians shall come
into Egypt and the Egyptians into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.
In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in
the midst of the land, whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt, my
people, and Assyria, the work of my hands, and Israel, mine inheritance.
Chapter 20
In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, when Sargon the king of Assyria sent him,
and fought against Ashdod and took it, at the same time spake the Lord by Isaiah the
black cloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thy foot, and he did so, walking
naked and barefoot.
And the Lord said, Like as my servant Isaiah hath walked naked and barefoot three years,
for a sign and wonder upon Egypt and upon Ethiopia, so shall the king of Assyria lead
away the Egyptian prisoners and the Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and barefoot,
even with their buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.
They shall be afraid, and ashamed of Ethiopia their expectation, and of Egypt their glory.
And the inhabitant of this isle shall say in that day, Behold, such is our expectation,
whither we flee for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria, and how shall we escape?
Chapter 21
The Burden of the Desert of the Sea
As whirlwinds in the south pass through, so it cometh from the desert from a terrible
land.
A grievous vision is declared unto me, the treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously,
and the spoiler spoileth.
Go up, O Elam, besiege, O Media, all the sign thereof have I made to cease.
Therefore are my loins filled with pain, pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a
woman that travelleth.
I was bowed down at the hearing of it, I was dismayed at the seeing of it.
My heart panted, fearfulness affrightened me, the night of my pleasure hath he turned
to do fear unto me.
Prepare the table, watch in the watch-tower, eat, drink, arise ye princes, and anoint the
shield.
For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Go, set a watchman, let him declare what he seeth.
And he saw a chariot with a couple of horsemen, a chariot of asses, and a chariot of camels,
and he hearkened diligently with much heed.
And he cried, A lion, my lord, I stand continually upon the watch-tower in the day-time, and
I am set in my ward whole nights.
And behold, here cometh a chariot of men with a couple of horsemen.
And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, and all the graven images of her
gods he hath broken unto the ground.
O my threshing and the corn of my floor, that which I have heard of the Lord of hosts, the
God of Israel, have I declared unto you.
The burden of Duma.
He calleth to me out of seer, Watchman, what of the night, watchman, what of the night?
The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night.
If ye will inquire, inquire ye, return, come.
The burden upon Arabia.
In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye travelling companies of Dedanim.
The inhabitants of the land of Tima brought water to him that was thirsty.
They prevented with their bread him that fled.
For they fled from the swords, from the drawn swords, and from the bent bow, and from the
grievousness of war.
For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Within a year, according to the years of an hireling,
and all the glory of Keter shall fail.
And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty men of the children of Keter, shall
be diminished, for the Lord God of Israel hath spoken it.